The goal of this is to get a portable CAD tool, which is able to read/write
.map files like found in the EXAMPLES directory and design level maps with it.

Currently the following games are fully supported:

	Doom, Ultimate Doom
	Doom2, Final Doom
	XDoom, XDoomPlus
	Hexen

Heretic support would be trivial, it uses the same WAD format than Doom.
The control files would be needed, which define the game, I can't work
on this, I have no registered Heretic. If you would be willing to work
on the control files and email them to me, I will do the necessary
programming and add full Heretic support. Same for Strife.

It is possible to edit ZDoom maps with the editor. For this decompile
them as XDoomPlus maps. Better would be working on control files for
ZDoom, so that one has all the line and sector specials at hand, the
engine supports. Sometime I might do that, is not one of my top
priorities, I prefer working on/with XDoom.

Theoretically the editor should allow to edit WAD files for all and any
WAD engines now. Unknown things, sectors and linedefs are handled gracefully
and one can enter unknown stuff by number, if the control files don't
include it.

If you want to mail a bug report I need to know this informations:

  1) OS name and release
  2) Tcl/Tk release
  3) Problem description

If possible please include the map file in the bug report, so that I have
a chance to reproduce the problem.

Note: use wadldc to decompile the maps in existing WAD files into map
files, which can be edited and compiled with this. Be sure to use
wadldc with the correct -g option, the editor can't work if one tries
to edit a Doom map decompiled as Hexen map e.g.

Note: the user manual in Postscript format is ~/manual/tkwadcad.ps.
If you would like to format it your self you need to have GNU roff
installed on your system, the old crufty UNIX roff won't do.
Note for Linux users: the makefile uses commands gpic, gtbl and groff,
because other UNIX's have the roff tools and so the GNU version is
prefixed with g, to avoid clashing with the originals. Some Linux
distributions come with GNU roff installed as pic, tbl and roff only,
so modify the makefile appropriate.
However, an already formatted manual is there, just print it.

Warning: this is work in progress, and the program might have bugs, save
your maps often! Personally I have not lost any work with it yet, so I
hope you won't either, but you never know.

YOU CANNOT CONVERT A DOOM LEVEL INTO A HEXEN LEVEL JUST WITH
SETTING THE MAP FORMAT TO THE ONE FOR THE OTHER GAME! IN FACT,
IF YOU LOAD A HEXEN MAP AND SAVE IT AS DOOM MAP, INFORMATIONS
WILL BE LOST! SO DON'T MESS WITH THE MAP FORMAT CONTROL!
It is possible to set the game type and the map type to inconsistent
settings, like Game = Doom2 and Map type = Extended. This will help
to convert maps if one knows exactly what one is doing. Again, if
you don't understand this stuff then don't mess with it, I'll not
disable an interesting feature just to make this fool proof for
Joe (Doom) Public.
